>> Steve Kinney: Let's do like
the next one is either incredibly
practical or not practical at all.
But it's like,
it's the treat we all earned from
listening to me try to
explain Transformers before,
which from the name alone should tell you,
this is gonna be good.
I decided that the appropriate
thing to do at this point in
the presentation was to use
the cheesiest stock photography.
This is not AI generated,
this is stock photography.
And it just felt right.
I think all these, every time
you see a presentation about AI,
it's AI image here, AI image there.
All these images are stock photography.
Cause I felt like that was
like to show that we have
been destroying art way before, before AI.
Okay, so Dreambooth is a technique.
It is effectively just
to ruin the lead here.
If the stuff we were doing with Laura and
parameter fission fine tuning
a little bit ago was ways to
basically fine tune a text
model in a lightweight way,
then Dreambooth is
effectively a lightweight
way to fine tune stable diffusion.
And if we said fine tune is for getting
the style of something that you want,
then this is, I would say,
more for the subject matter,
but a way to train one of
these models very easily on
a subject that you choose and
with very few inputs.
And it's effectively a hack,
which is we know everything.
This is the prize that we deserved, right?
We know that the way these things work
is they take to your question earlier.
What happens if I give it
a word it doesn't know, right?
We did not get the reward we wanted
to by seeing weird unknown tokens.
We just got garbage.
If you make up a new term that
stable diffusion doesn't know and
then you show it a bunch of
pictures of that term, guess what?
You've taught it?
You've taught it a new term that it
uses when it's denoising things, right?
So basically the canonical
example is SKS dog.
That's somebody's dog or whatever.
But you have to make some kind of made up,
nonsensical term, right?
And then what you do is
you upload some number
of pictures of that thing
of that made up term and
you say this is made up term, right?
And you train it so
that when it hears made up term,
it thinks about that image and
you can get away with like
three to ten made up images and
get shockingly close.
And again, I'm gonna use,
I think with this one,
I think it works on the free one, it does.
It will get a cup of coffee if
you're running on the free one.
If not,
I will tweak it a little bit later.
I'm pretty sure it does.
But I was trying to refactor it and
things went a little poorly.
So I definitely tested a lot
more on the big boy one.
Cuz I was like, I needed the cycles
to go a little bit faster for myself.
But you can basically then as
long as you reference that thing,
you will get versions of that, right.
And so I will shows you.
Cause it kind of begins to open up the
door of like even like the image to image
stuff is cool.
I think like some of
the generating the images,
like the piecing these things together.
Right.
I always say that like
there are some things where it's like
definitely you should learn this thing.
Cause it's important for your job.
And there's some that are important
because like my hope from some of this is
that like a week from now you'll be like,
but what if I took the question answering
stuff and the classification stuff and
this other thing.
The interesting part is the overlap.
But Dreambooth basically
is a way to effectively to
fine tune one of these
models make playground.
What we're going to do is definitely
going to install some dependencies.
Nothing totally special here.
There's a lot of extra little libraries.
We're gonna walk through
code step by step.
I did at one point try to comment on a lot
of the lines explaining what they do.
But even me reading them
to you is gonna be rough.
I think the concept is again a version
of fine tuning with a relatively small
data set on a relatively small
model gives you great win, right?
So what we're going to do
is we're going to take.
I forget which version of stable
diffusion I chose at the end of the day.
But luckily it is very clear in
the code somewhere we are going.
And you can do this too.
You can run this.
In fact it'd be cool if somebody
wanted to do it on the small one.
Just to verify.
Just don't tell me on camera if it
doesn't work, I'll fix it later.
Just tell me privately.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna
come up with some new parameter.
Like I said before,
the canonical one is this SKS dog
because it doesn't mean anything.
The only core criteria is that it
has to be something ridiculous and
you need to use it consistently.
This was good enough in
a lot of cases, but.
And that should be
interpolated everywhere.
If it doesn't I will go find it and
fix it.
And what we do is Google Collab has this
neat feature where you run this cell and
you can pick files on your file system and
upload it into the notebook space.
So if you just try to hit run all the only
thing that will block you is this
one because it'll be waiting for
you to upload pictures until you do it.
So yeah, my dependencies are installed.
So next I'm going to do this and
you can see I get this choose files.
Here I have ten pictures of my dog.
And I think to make the magic trick
important, I'm not trying to show you my
dog like that guy who shows
you his dog all the time.
But like this is what
Bonnabelle looks like.
This is Bon Bon.
I'm not looking for like pandering.
She's cute, we all know that.
The point is commit this dog to memory.
It will be important later.
Okay?
That's all I'm trying to say.
I'm not trying to show off my dog.
She's a pit bull, she's fine.
There are cuter dogs out there.
I've seen them, A lot of them.
There's huskies,
there's tons of cuter dogs in my dog.
But that's my dog and that's important for
the story that I'm telling right now.
Then we have some amount
of just preparing the data.
I will show you.
It's just mostly setting
the size based on the property.
It's just mostly creating a data structure
that has everything I need in it.
Arguably this is where I was like
I should simplify this all down.
And that's when I broke things so
I didn't, mostly.
Okay, go get all the images
in the right directory.
Just some non glamorous
given the directory.
Go look in the directory,
get all the files.
Only the ones that are images, not sub
directories, all that kind of fun stuff.
We do use this thing in this technique
which I think is interesting, which is
you can also get better results by priming
it with this prior preservation, right.
And so I gave it ten pictures
of a pitbull, right?
A trick is then also have
it also like generate
a bunch of pictures like especially for
a dog.
If you had like a very unique
like favorite action figure or
something like that, you're gonna get
this could be a little bit easier.
But for a dog,
you know, to prime it with like more
pictures of pit bulls doesn't hurt.
Totally optional step, right?
In fact, even if you have like at one
point I had Like I did a cat first and
the cat was in there.
I still got good results.
I grabbed a stable diffusion 2 and
then this is how strong you
want that prior art to be.
Right.
Like clearly I want my pictures
to be more.
I'm just trying to like
prime the pump a little bit.
More descriptions of
stuff we already talked
about before that U-Net is basically
how much noise do we want?
And the denoising, all of the fun stuff
that we talked about in previous slides.
So then what we're going to do is
we're going to load the model and
as you can see effectively we're
pulling in that stable diffusion model.
As you can see with this pre-trained
model, name of path, pre trained model,
name of path we're pulling in stable
diffusion 2, I think I picked.
Yeah.
And you can try out different models,
they're here for you.
Especially if you are trying
to do this on the free tier
GPU definitely grab a smaller
older model as well.
You won't get better results,
but you might A get results or B,
cause depending on the images and
the size and stuff like that,
you will be coasting right on
that GPU memory threshold.
So like if you need to shrink your
images or something like that.
But yeah, find a pet, a sock puppet,
a favorite action figure,
a guitar, your MacBook.
I don't care, yourself, right?
Find three to ten pictures and
that's all we're gonna do, right?
For this magic trick.
We are going to find three to 10 pictures,
we are gonna upload them and we have.
No, don't embarrass me.
Did I not run the right cell?
Cuz you got to run these cells in order.
Yeah, I didn't run that cell.
So we'll download those real quick,
coming.
And then we'll set this one to
follow up right afterwards.
So yeah, three to 10 pictures,
you don't need many more than that.
Again, every picture you add
is going to add more time so
you will get better results.
But three times, about all you need.
Obviously the closer to 10 it's gonna
process those and do all of the.
As you were asking before, that image
is effectively going to associate those
pictures with your made up term.
The other thing is yes, your term needs
to be a word that does not exist.
So if you put in, if you upload a bunch
of pictures of your computer and
you say computer, you're not going
to get results that you want.
You need to pick a word that does
not exist in the network at all.
And we're gonna basically
do the lightest weight.
Fine tuning to this image model
that we could possib come up with.
All right, those models are downloading.
We got these models coming in again.
All the training parameters.
Explain them all one by one.
But again, the pre-model training
path is that one we picked earlier.
These are just data structures
that we're going to pass in there.
We do want to center crop the images
when we make them smaller.
Lots of little fun things.
Again, if you are depending on the size
of the GPU you're running or if you're
running on CPU on your own computer,
you need to turn that number down.
Go for it.
The higher the numbers,
the more time everything's going to take.
But this seemed to be the sweet spot for
testing it.
But yeah,
I annotated every last one of them.
Then we'll define a training function
which is simply passing it to this
one hugging face library that we saw
before with some error catching.
The idea is with this made up word
that does not exist in the network.
What we should be able to do.
I didn't, go away,
hide yourself, hide yourself.
I didn't even want to really show you.
We're gonna run this training process,
right?
No, I'm gonna hit Run also, there you go.
It will go in.
We'll train the network with it and
then hopefully what we'll see if the live
demo gods love us is the ability
to kind of then use that model to create
pictures of that thing you uploaded.
So if it's your dog,
you should be able to see.
You'll be able to create pictures
of your dog in space, right?
Your dog underwater, right?
Cuz, again, you'll take that model,
you'll fine tune it with
your special things, right?
You'll create a new model on top
of again three to ten images.
And then this is the part that takes long.
So three to 10 images and then you will
see whatever it is that you wanted,
whether it's your kid, your pet,
your favorite action figure, whatever,
in different contexts using
that term to prime the network.
So yeah, I'll show you a few examples.
Like we have the one from
when we ran it earlier.
Technically true.
We have the one from when we ran earlier.
And then I'll show you the kind of
examples of other ones that they have
as well.
And you can kind of see, let's see.
Is this the one with the examples?
No, Let me see if I can find.
There's a bunch of like.
It's interesting to watch the other ones
like based on sock puppets or whatever.
I might pull that up in a second, because
I thought it was gonna be easier to
find off the top of my
head than it actually was.
But the point is pulling the stuff in.
We have the one that came out of the oven,
Right.
If we saw the dog earlier,
that is the aforementioned dog on the moon
submarine did not work out super well.
I will say that the capes were weird for
flying.
I think the bigger models with
more time will 100% work better.
But, like, considering the fact that
she has a bandana on most of the time.
I know my dog has a bandana.
It's weird.
It's fine.